there is a plausible case that Israel is
using starvation as a weapon of War
that's according to the United Nations
most senior human rights official fulka
Turk he says if proven that would amount
to a war crime humanitarian agencies are
calling for an immediate ceasefire and
large deliveries of Aid in Gaza where a
famine is looming Israel insists it's
letting in all the humanitarian Aid that
is needed from Jerusalem here our
International editor Jeremy bone and his
report contains upsetting images
Gaza is no place to be ill nura Muhammad
had lung and liver problems before the
war now after months of starvation and
without the Right medical care she is
deteriorating fast and I'm my daughter
can't move says her mother she's anemic
always sleeping and there's nothing
nutritious to
eat there is plenty to eat only a few
miles away in the lorries that are
backed up on the egyp eyptian side of
the border and much more that could come
from Israel if the Israelis let it into
Gaza from Geneva vulat Turk the un's
most senior human rights official told
me there is plausible evidence that
Israel is using starvation as a weapon
of war look when it comes to
humanitarian assistance let's be clear
Israel is an occupying power and has an
obligation to provide humanitarian
assistance
and if that humanitarian assistance does
not come in in the scale speed and
predictability that is required yes very
serious questions are raised so let's
get it very clear Israel is to blame
Israel is to blame in significant in a
significant way yes you're aware of
course that Israel says they're not to
blame at all that they give as much Aid
as is possible that if anyone's to blame
it's the UN and it's particular L Hamas
it is absolutely clear what happened on
the 7th and the 8th of October by Hamas
and some of the other armed groups is
unconscionable these are flagrant
violations of international humanitarian
law and international human rights at
the same time the
brutality of the attack by Israel and
the method of warfare it begs the
question of the proportionality of the
response you you're saying questions you
say there's no doubt about Hamas are
there any doubts about Israel you always
have to prove the intent but as I said
Collective punishment the collective
punishment that was declared with the
siege is indeed amounts to a war crime
and it needs to be dealt as
such on social media false claims
circulate that famine in Gaza is a Lie
the Hebrew caption says there's more
shawarma in Gaza than in Israeli Hyer
and Israel's government dismisses the
un's accusations total nonsense total
irresp responsible uh thing to say
Israel is accepting all the aid that the
US and the world is giving to gazan
innocent people which a lot of it goes
to extend the war how many innocent
people are in Gaza in your opinion
that's not I'm not going to quote any
number I I'm basically saying that over
70% of gazans support October 7 Massacre
so they're not innocent people that are
supporting uh Hamas uh they have a
different thought they're an enemy I
thank our friends around the world for
supporting our strategic goal and I'm
I'm I'm telling you but they don't like
the way you're doing it do they that's
tough we're going to finish the war
we'll do everything we can to kill the
Kamas terrorists and to minimize
collateral damage as much as we can the
evidence of gaza's humanitarian
catastrophe is overwhelming and it is
deepening International pressure on
Israel swollen joints wasted Limbs and
dermatitis
are classic symptoms of acute
malnutrition these children reached
Hospital most of just over 1 million
gazans considered to be in acute need
will not have that option Jeremy bow BBC
News Jerusalem